# Workflow

-------------------------------

## Analysis of localization data

1. We first segment the image obtained from the localizations into two a low-density region (outcell) and a high-density region (incell). We then select part of the image and perform cluster analysis with DBSCAN or DBSCANLoop for a full range of clustering parameters. For a given dataset, localizations are read from the file ```XC.hdf5``` located in the Input folder. (e.g. ```TTX_24hr_2/Input/XC.hdf5```. Results are saved in files ```Output/X_incell.txt``` and ```Output/XC_outcell.hdf5.```
	- To do this, run ```Code/dash-split-cell/app.py```, select parameters and save the split.
	- Alternatively, run ```Analysis/analysis_1_DefineInOutCell.py``` with the respective subfolder of ```Data_AnalysisOrganized```, and with adapted parameters if necessary. Parameters are loaded from the file ```Input/parameters_splitInOutCell.json```.
	
2. To define a ROI and run the clustering analysis, run ```Analysis/analysis_2_Clustering.py```

3. To analyze the clustering results, run either ```Dash/dash-show-clustering``` or ```Analysis/analysis_3_plotting.ipynb```.

4. An alternative, exploratory analysis is given in ```Analysis/FigY1_Exploration_SingleDataset.ipynb```, where a square window is analyzed. This is not optimized to work with the folders in ```Data_AnalysisOrganized```, and runs with a precomputed example in ```Data_Other/MikeData/Analysis_dataWindow_1```.

## How to file to reproduce existing figures

1. To reproduce Figures of the manuscript ["Unbiased choice of global clustering parameters in single-molecule localization microscopy"](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.02.22.432198v1), run the respective python files in the "ProduceFigures/" Subfolder. This will analyse the precomputed clustering results in the "../Data_Figures/" folder. **NOTE: The working directory is assumed to be ```Code/```. To run the files from the command line, change ```sys.path.append("Modules/")``` to ```sys.path.append("../Modules/")```**

2. To re-compute clustering results:
	- copy the parameter file ending on ```_Parameters.json``` from the subfolder of "../Data_Figures/" (eg. ```../Data_Figures/Results_Fig3/Results_3mers_Parameters.json``` into the ```../Data_Figures/Input``` folder. Make sure only one file is in the folder. 
	- Then go to the ```Modules``` folder and run ```ComputeSeries.py``` or ```Modules/RunAll.py```. ```Modules/RunAll.py``` processes all input files in the Input folder. A folder with the date of the computation will be created in the ```../Data_Figures/```-folder (e.g. ```Results_2022_01_19_15_31_31_0```).
	- To test this, leave the file ```Fig3_a_3mers.json``` as only file in the input folder, then run ```python3 ComputeSeries.py```. This re-computes the clustering results shown in Fig. 3a. 
	- Runtime: The example ```Fig3_a_3mers.json``` runs in <2 minutes on a local machine (2,3 GHz Quad-Core Intel Core i5, 8 GB 2133 MHz LPDDR3). Running the ```*.json``` files from ```Results_Fig4``` takes >1hr for each file. The localization-source data for Figure 5 is not included in the repository, but processed files can be found in the respective folders.

3. To run the FINDER algorithm on your own localization data, add 

```
from Finder_1d import Finder_1d

FD      = Finder_1d()
labels  = FD.fit(XC)                
result_ = FD.selected_parameters
```

to your code, analogous to DBSCAN in the sklearn.cluster package. FINDER will choose global clustering parameters according to the overall noise levels / the robustness detected in the dataset.

****************************************************************************************************
NOTE: 
For the purpose of reproducing the results in the manuscript, the files include the CAML-code and pre-trained models published on [Gitlab](https://gitlab.com/quokka79/caml), see also
Williamson et al. "Machine learning for cluster analysis of localization
microscopy data", Nat. Comm. (2020) .
****************************************************************************************************

# MODULES DESCRIPTION

-----------------------------------------------------------

## `AnalyseSeries.py`


TBD

## `Clustering.py`

Class to cluster the point generated by the `Geometry` class.
It also has an evaluation system, using the method `evaluation`.
Can also plot

## `ClustersInOutCell.py`

TBD

## `ComputeSeries.py`

TBD

## `DBscanLoop.py`

The implementation of the *noise free* implementation of DBscan, described in the paper.

## `FigY_functions.py`

TBD

## `Finder_1d`

Implementation of the FINDER algorithm.
The name `_1D` should probably be changed.

## `Geometry_Base.py`

TBD

Has 3 subclasses:

* `Geometry_Free`
* `Geometry_Grid`
* `Geometry_Path`

## `SimilarityScore.py`

Functions used to compute the similarity score (for the FINDER algorithm).



# DATASETS

--------------------




